mommy has lots to explain~ (#63)
Gankra/cargo-mommy: book/src/contributing/concepts.md

# Concepts

> At its heart, mommy exists to invoke cargo, check if the result was a success or failure, and print an appropriate message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At her heart, mommy exists to invoke cargo, check if the result was a success or failure, and print an appropriate message~
```

Printing that message involves reading a bunch of configuration from env-vars to define pools of values to randomly select from, then:

> 1. randomly [deciding what mood the response should have](#moods)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. randomly [decide what mood the response should have](#moods)
```

> 2. using the success/failure state to select which pool of answer from that mood to use (positive, negative, overflow)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. use the success/failure state to select which pool of answers from that mood to use (positive, negative, overflow)
```

> 3. randomly selecting a message from that pool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. randomly select a message from that pool
```

cargo-mommy has 3 major components~

1. [responses.json, where data lives](https://github.com/Gankra/cargo-mommy/blob/main/responses.json)

> 2. [build.rs, that digests that data and coverts it to rust code](https://github.com/Gankra/cargo-mommy/blob/main/build.rs)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [build.rs, that digests that data and converts it to rust code](https://github.com/Gankra/cargo-mommy/blob/main/build.rs)
```

3. [main.rs, that handles execution](https://github.com/Gankra/cargo-mommy/blob/main/src/main.rs)

The build.rs is extremely extra, but it's actually kind of useful for making it tolerable to [disable nsfw features](../customize/never-nsfw.md). In theory it also makes cargo-mommy very efficient and fast, which, again, is very extra.

## Responses.json

The ""schema"" of responses.json is currently the following (`$SOME_VALUE` here is an ~arbitrary string):

```text
{
    "moods": {
        "$MOOD": {
            "positive": ["$GOOD_MESSAGE", ...]
            "negative": ["$BAD_MESSAGE" ...]
            "overflow": ["$E_TOO_MANY_MOMMY_MESSAGE", ...]
            "spiciness": "chill" | "thirsty" | "yikes" | <defaults to "chill">,
        }
    }
    "vars": {
        "$VAR": {
            "defaults": ["$VALUE", ...]
            "env_key": "$KEY" | <defaults to $VAR>
            "spiciness": "chill" | "thirsty" | "yikes" | <defaults to "chill">,
        }
    }
}
```

### Moods

> Moods contain [pools of messages](#message-pools) with a particular feeling/intensity. This was originally introduced to allow the user to opt into [nsfw functionality](../customize/nsfw.md), but exists more generically than that, and we'd be happy to have more sfw moods like "furry" or whatever.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moods contain [pools of messages](#message-pools) with a particular feeling/intensity. This was originally introduced to allow the user to opt into [nsfw functionality](../customize/nsfw.md). Its functionality is more general than that, and we'd be happy to have more sfw moods like "furry" or whatever.
```
